our journey began when i made the
admittedly short-sighted decision to
purchase three drop cat excuse me uh
nest cams without reading the fine print
sure they had excellent image quality a
modern design and a super easy to use
app but there was one fatal flaw in
addition to the 150 dollar per camera
upfront cost nest wants a whopping 5 to
30 dollars per camera per month to store
the footage in the cloud for you and
they offer no way for you to hook up
your own storage device
so we put together
this
it costs a third as much and has no
monthly fees
speaking of things with no monthly fees
that is to say as long as you pay for it
yearly private internet access it's a
vpn service that encrypts all of your
internet traffic and uses a safe
protected ip it's got a ton of other
useful features too so check it out at
the link below
[Music]
there are a ton of reasons why someone
might want a security camera system even
if you're not a drug dealer or whatever
a handful of cameras on your property
can act as a deterrent for would-be
burglars remember they're often after
the easy score not the big one they can
be a convenient way to monitor your pets
or kids when they're at home alone they
can significantly aid law enforcement's
efforts to recover stolen goods and this
one's kind of a no-brainer they can even
lower your insurance rates making it so
they effectively pay for themselves so
what do we got
well the build for each is actually
pretty simple all we need is a raspi
zero w so that's wireless so you don't
need a dongle or anything like that
a little camera module it connects with
a ribbon cable and there's even a
pre-built operating system some guy made
called motion ios is it free yeah sick
and open source all right let's do it
since these cameras are intended for use
indoors we forwent any waterproofing but
this could be done fairly easily with
some silicone and conformal coating so
after two days of tinkering with the
software measuring the electronics and
modifying some existing models from
thingiverse we had a couple of options
for 3d printed enclosures for our
cameras so the model i found online
actually needed a little modification
for the heatsink
wait
the raspberry pi runs that hot yeah
especially when you overclock which
we're gonna do
we're overclocking
it's a it's a preset that's built in but
you can get much better frame rate when
you overclock them and i made a little
arm that uh adjusts both ways so you got
lots of tilt and pan oh that's cool
i see we've taken the uh
chinese action cam approach and ripped
off gopro hey man they make good stuff
okay
other way
there you go
not bad for those of you hoping to build
something similar at home you can pick
up a case with holes already cut for the
official raspi camera modules from
modmypi or you could get the models
linked in the description printed from a
company like shapeways okay so i
pre-configured the os and the wi-fi as
that can be a little time consuming the
first time but we should just need to
plug it in and wait for it to boot up
hopefully it actually works right
it's powered yeah i know but it might
not uh have detected it so now that
we're booted up you can see our ip we've
got a login screen um
we should really do a written guide on
this yeah just on the forum probably
should if you could do that up for me
that would be great
thanks
okay let's see the interface so this is
really cool the number of customization
options in the software can look a
little overwhelming at first but the
premise is pretty simple now we just
have this camera module here attached to
this raspi at the moment so all we need
to do is add the camera in
set up our desired config so we're going
to use 720p 10fps and then just set the
footage to store on one of our servers
here at the office
what actually gets recorded is pretty
much up to you so we're setting ours up
to just continuously record up to a
maximum of 24 hour long clips with a
preservation length of one month after
which the old footage will be
automagically deleted but you can also
set it to record only when motion is
detected which will help you preserve
space and your sanity if you ever have
to go back into the footage to look for
something
so our config will change a little bit
once we have multiple cameras but we can
talk more about that later so this is
pretty cool already
but we can take it to another level
a more conventional security camera
enclosure would keep our razpi zeros
much safer outside and would look a lot
more like a professionally installed
security system
so we actually borrowed the idea of a
common home security hack
buying fake
cctv cameras off amazon
to kind of like set up around your
property except
we are going to put
real cameras inside
you know i'd say you're a genius but it
was my idea
once our fake cameras arrived cracking
them open revealed an almost entirely
empty casing perfect
we did end up 3d printing a little
holding bracket for our camera but if i
were you i wouldn't bother it's much
easier to just remove the black plastic
piece that holds the fake camera and hot
glue the real one into place
as for the power cable the rear housing
just needed a little hole for it so now
that we have two cameras with the
potential for more it's actually
recommended that you get another raspi
and run motion ios on it as a server
with
no camera attached so we've got an
example of what that might look like
right here so most of its processing
power can be devoted to encoding footage
to be stored onto your nas via the
network cable that way you can see all
of your wi-fi cameras in one place
do note though that you will need
something like a raspi three plus
because a pi zero won't be able to
handle the load of a bunch of cameras so
that'll limit the resolution and the
frame rate of the footage that can be
recorded to make this config work better
the cameras themselves can be run in a
special setup called fast network camera
mode which uses the pi zero's gpu to
encode a motion jpeg stream to the pi
server for much higher image quality and
frame rate so you can check out the
forum post in the description for a
how-to on that these actually look
surprisingly good like that wide angle
looks sick yeah so both of them are
running 720p 10fps right now which
doesn't sound like a lot but you know
for a security camera it's actually
quite a bit yeah i mean these look way
better than your average cctv and
all of the footage that you get can
either be backed up to google drive so
buy expensive nest subscription or it
can be stored directly on a local nas or
just a pc where it'll be safe from third
parties and other prying eyes and
because you can choose your own camera
elements you can decide what features
you want on each one so this one has a
fairly narrow field of view whereas the
one that we have over there is using a
wide-angle lens so i guess it's
conclusion time then this diy solution
is a super awesome way to keep you in
control of your cameras and it can
actually help save you a very
significant amount of money every month
for your home or business
but there are some compromises
first we're giving up any special
features like audio whether it's two-way
or one-way
second the control panel does look
pretty great as a mobile web page but
you'll need to do
port forwarding tomfoolery in order to
access it remotely and there is
currently no android or ios app and then
finally
the casings
and mounts frankly don't really look
that great
oh and keep in mind that you won't have
any support number to call if you're
having issues as helpful as those
typically may or may not be
the cove commuter is a portable
bluetooth speaker that you can take
anywhere
that's where the portable part comes in
it connects via bluetooth that's where
the bluetooth part comes in and features
10 meter range that's almost 33 feet it
features an xbase subwoofer to let you
feel the bass and it doubles as a
speaker phone for incoming calls the
rechargeable battery can last up to
eight hours and it's water resistant
with an ipx4 rating it's got two eq
modes one designed for indoors and one
designed for outside and you can check
it out today at the link below
so thanks for watching guys if you
disliked this video you can hit that
button but if you liked it hit like get
subscribed maybe consider checking out
where to buy the stuff we featured at
the link in the video description also
down there is our merch store which has
cool shirts like this one sans hole
and our community forum which you should
totally join which is by the way where
you're gonna find the
guide for how to make yourself one of
these on lychee